Header
...........
1. Verify the heade section added on the website.
2. verify header section is aligned.
3. Verify icons aligned with the text if added to header.
4. Verify icons added should be related to the link test.
5. Verify whether link text should be readable or not.
6. Verify the logo of the website added on the header on the header is aligned or not.
7. Verify the same header used on whole page website pages.
8. Verify header is sticky on the whole page or fixed as per requirments and design.
9  Verify whether all links should be opening on the header or not.
10.Verify on click on the link on the header the correct page should be open.
11.Verify the home page should be open on clicking on the logo on all pages.
12.verify on the mouse over colour change or not for the link added on the header menu.
13.Verify that selected header link should remain active to inform the user about the clicked screen/page.
14.Verify search bar is added to the header menu or not.
15.Verify header and body section should not look the same.The header and body section must distinguish.
17.Verify icon colour should also change on mouse over on the header if icons are added (<).
18.Verify dropdown options added on the header shown on mouse over or click.


Footer
................
1. verify the footer section is aligned at the end of the page.
2. Verify there should be no extra white space at the end of the footer on high screen resolutions.
3. Verify element at the aligned at the footer section or not.
4. Verify footer section should be the same for all pages.
5. Verify the logo shown at the footer.
6. Verify logo is aligned on the footer.
7. Verify from any page on click on the logo home page should be open.
8. Verify by clicking on the links correct pages should be loded.
9. Verify all social links with icons added on the footer.
10.Verify no spelling mistakes for the text on the footer section.
11.Verify there must be equal space or the elements links,button and social links from top and bottom at footer section.
12. verify no broken links is found on the footer.
13.Verify whether the subscription to the newsletter section present or not.
14.Verify whether the subscription to the newsletter email field with subscribe button present or not.
15.Verify Validation on the email field for subscribing to the newsletter added or not.
16.Verify an error message shown on blank input on click on the subscribe button.
17.verify confirmation message should be shown if the user subscribed successfully.
18.Verify mouse cursor changes fr20om a pointer to a hand on the link.ther 
20.Verify correct year was added to the footer section or not.
21.Verify whether the copyright icons is added or not on the footer section.
22.Verify the size of the copyright icon.


 Uplode file/image
..................................
1. Verify uplode file button or link is present.
2. Verify the uplode button or link should be clickable.
3.Verify that the whole button including the button text should be clickable.
4. Verify text upload on the button.
5. Verify icon added with the upload button is in the design and is alinged or not.
6. Verify on click on the Upload button window should be open to select the file.
7. Verify cancel button is working .On click on the cancel button window should be closed.
8. verify that the user can be able to select and upoad multiple files if required.
9. Verify users can upload multiple files at once.
10 Verify the order of the file should be the same as the files uploaded or both cases one by one and multiple files uploaded.
11. verify that the user can only be able to upload the allowed files lke jpj,png,etc....
12.Verify a proper errer message should be shown in case the user tries to upload the file which is not allowed .File type not allowed.
13 Verify an errror message should be shown in case the user tires to upload files more than the allowed limit.
14 verify on uploading file loader shuold be shown.
15 Verify there should be some indications on the uploading file.
16 Verify on upload amlocked file password pop message should be shown.
17 Verify file should be upload if the user adds the correct password for the locked file.
18 Verify a proper error message should be shown in case if password added for the protected or locked file is not correct.
19 Verify that the file name should be the same and displayed after uploading the file.
20 Verify that the file size should be shown under the file name.
21 Verify an error message shown if the file size is large than the allowed one.
22 verify an error message if the file is empty and has no content.
23 Verify the application behavior by uploading a large name file.
24 Verify ...3dots should be shown in case the file name is too large and distrub the dsign25
25 Verify on the drop file ,the file should not open on the browser.
26 Verify on the drop files it should not download.


    Login
   ....................
1. Verify the  user credential remained on the field after clicking remember and get back to the login screen again.
2. Verify that the user will be able to login with their account with the correct credential.
3. Verify that the user will get into their dashboard screen after login in with the correct credentials.
4. Verify that the user can access all controls and elements by pressing the tab key from the keyboard.
5. Verify that the user can login by entryig valid credentials and pressing Enter key.
6. verify that the user can login by enterying valid credentials and clicking on the Login button.
7. Verify that the password entered should be in encrypted from.
8. Verify  whether an eye icon is added to the password field or not.
9. Verify that the user can be able to view the password by clicking on the eye icon.
10 Verify line spacing added on password on mac.
11 There should be an email verification check as the user verifies the email address then yhe user is able to view the dashboard and access features.
12 Add a captcha on the login from to prevent the robot attack.
13 Verify the error message should display after just entering an email address and leaving the password field blank.
14 Verify the error message should display after just entering a password and leave the email field blank.
15 Verify the error message should display after entering the invalid credentials.
16 Verify the error message should display after entering an invalid email format.
17 Verify the display error message for invalid email format should be correct.
18 Verify the displayed error message grammar should be correct.
19 Verify the displayed error message spell should be correct.
20 Verify logged in user should not log out on closing the browser.
21 Verify the login sesion timeout durtion so once logined in a user can not be authenticate for a lifetime.
22 Verify the logged in user  dose not log out by clicking the back button on the browsers tab.
23 Verify that there is a limit to the total number of unsuccessful login attempts.Therefore users can not use brute force mechanism to try all
   possible username password combination.

24 verify logged in user copies the URL and paste it into a new browser window ,it should redirect to the login page.
25 Check login by google and all social options for login in the private window separately.
26 As the user sings in ,on the home page ,there is no need for displaying singup or try now (if the user logged in )
27 Add rate limit on login .After how many attempts user should be able to restrict by the app for the wait.
28 Verify it should not be always in loading in case the user add an invalid email and password.

   
    Login page
  .........................
1. Verify the login screen will appear after clicking on a login link or login button.
2. Verify all login related elements and all fields are present on login page.
3. Verify the alignment of displayed elements on the login screen should be comatible in cross browsers testing.
4. Verify that the size,color and UI of diffrent elements should match the specification.
5. Verify that the login page of the application is reponsive and aligns properly on diffrent screen resoluations and devices.
6. Verify login page titel.
7. Verify the user login page is open,the cursor should remain in the username text box by default.
8. Verify that there is a checkbox with the label remember password on the login page.
9. Verify the remember me checkbox should mark as checked after clicking on the label text and the checkbox.

    
    Regstration  test case
 .....................................

1. Verify by clicking on the ubmit button for blank input.
2. Verify all fields related to registration present on the registration from.
3. Password fields should have validation for a minimum of 8 to 16 charecters, must contain one special charecters ,at least one uppercase 
   characters and have a numerical.
4. Verify password added by  the user should be protected encryted and shown in an asterisk.
5. Verify whether the validation is added for the password and confirm whether passwords are the sameor not.
6. Verify an eye icon added to the password and confirm the password field.
7. Verify by clicking on the eye icon password should be shown for both password and confirm password fields.
8. Verify captcha is added to the form or not. Captcha added due to security .Hidden or visible may be added according to need.
9. verify example or dummy data shown as placeholder text in the fields. It helps the user to register their account without facing any issues.
10 Verify that user added information is not removed from the fields incase of any validation fails. Can be done when client side validation is implement.
11 Verify possible validation should be done on the client side whenever possible.
12 Verify that validation is added to the email field only valid emails should be allowed to register successfully.
13 Verify that the user adds blank spaces and clicks on the register button an error message should be shown.
14 Verify that the user can navigate or access the different controls by pressing the "Tab" key on the keyboard.
15 Verify users can register successfully by entering valid credentials.
16 Verify that the user is not allowed to register an account with same registered email by adding plus for examole useractuai+1@gmail.com
17 Verify by trying to register with an already register email address.
18 Verify the email verification link was sent to the user's email address successfuly.
19 Verify that the user should not be able access the application, software or pro features untill the user verifies its email by clickingon the link 
   sent in the email.
20 Verify the user is informed to check the spam folder if no email link is found in the inbox.
21 Verify Resend link opion is present if the user did not receive the link in the email.
22 Verify resend email link becomes disabled if the user continuously clicks on the Resend link.Set a limit max of five times to send the link 
   then give the user a rest.
23 If the user signup with email and social platform and both have the same email consider it one email unquely not the two separate accounts.
24 Verify that the required fields are not filled in and clicking the Register button will result in a validation error message.
25 Verify all spelling mistakes on the Register page.


    Forgate password test case
  ...........................................

1. Verify that forget password link should be present on the login page.
2. verify that on clicking on the forget password link forget password page should open.
3. Verify that the email field is presnt on the forget password page to recover the password .
4. Verify as the user update password,the user should log out from all browser and devices.
5. Verify that storage for the databse on forgot password.
6. Verify that an email validation is added to the email field.
7. Verify submit button should be present on the page.
8. Verify the whole button should be clickable not only the button text.
9. Verify that the link sent to the user should expire after a certain time.
10 Verify sent password link should be disable on clicking multiple times on the link or as per specification requirement.
11 Verify the error message should be displayed after entering an unregistered  user email id.
12 Verfy the displayed error message for unregistered should be meaningful.
13 Verify the confirmation message check your email to recover the password should be displayed after clicking on the button by entering the registeed email.
14 Verify that the user will get an email after entering a valid email id in forget password.
15 Verify the email which the user gets againts forgot password should be displayed in the inbox ,not in the spam folder.
16 verify the error message should be displayed when clicking on the recover button without entering the email id.
17 verify the heading displayed in forget password screen should be "Forget Password".
18 Verify the error message should be displayed when entering spaces in the field and clicking on the submit button.
19 Verify user should be login successfully with the new password not by the old password.
20 Verify message should be shown on profile change your password incase if a temporary is sent in the email.


    Test cases for Button
  ..................................

1. Verify button pesent on the page as per the design on the web page.
2. Verify the button colour same as per design.
3. verify  icon added on the button if added in the design, for example- Upload or Download icon with the button.
4. Verify icon added on the button must be aligned with button and button text or not.
5. Verify width and height for the button.
6. Verify border radius is applied on the button or not.
7. Verify that the width and height of the buttons used the website are the same or not as per design.
8. Verify button text related to the functionality of the tool on the web page.
9. Verify button is enable /clickable or not by clicking on the button.
10 Verify colour changed on the mouse hover or not.
11 Verify colour changed on mouse hover the same as per design.
12 Verify user can be able to open button link in a new tab by right click on the button, open link new tab option shown or not.
13 Verify whether pressing the " Ctrl" button on the keyboard and click on the button opens a new tab or not .It should be according to the requirements.
14 verify the whole button should be clickable not only button text.
15 Verify values added by the user on click on the submit button saved correctly in the database.
16 Verify the user should not be allowed to click on the submit from/page button multiple times intentionally or unintentionally.
17 Verify the desired action performed on click button or not.
18 Verify the spelling for the button text is correct or not.
19 Check button text is readable or not by verifying button text size.
20 Verify button text colour should be visible on the button.
21 Verify font family provided by the designer implement or not.
22 Verify the reset button should set default.



   Test case for Radio button
 .......................................

1. Verify radio buttons present on the page as per design.
2. Verify the size of the radio button should be the same as per design.
3. Verify style and colour for the radio buttons should be the same as per requirements or not.
4. Verify label text present on the page with the radio buttons.
5. verify the label text for the radio buttons added in the same sequence as per specification.
6. Verify spellings for the label text with the radio buttons are correct or not.
7. verify if the label text alinged with the radio buttons or not.
8. Verify if the radio button is selectable and unselectable or not by clicking all radio buttons.
9. Verify on clicking on the label text, whether the radio button value is selected or not.
10 Verify only one value from the radio buttons can be selected r not.
11 Verify user can choose any option from the radio buttons by pressing the tab key on the keyboard.
12 Verify whether an error message is shown or not incase the user not select any value and click on the submit button.
13 Verify selected radio button value is saved in the database correctly or not.


     Test case for checkbox
  ............................................

1. Verify that the checkbox present on the webpage is in the correct position.
2. Verify the width and height of the checkbox.
3. Verify the border radius for the checkbox rounded or corner edge.
4. Verify the colour for the tick by clicking the checkbox.
5. Verify the checkbox is selectable by clicking on the checkbox with the mouse.
6. Verify the checkbox is selectaable by the keyboard.
7. Verify the user can uncheck the checkbox by clicking on it.
8. Verify if the user can select multiple checkboxes or not.
9. verify the label text present with the checkbox.
10 Verify if the label text aligned with the checkbox or not.
11 verify on page load the very first checkbox selescted by default and showing tick sign.
12 Verify whether on click on the label text checkbox value checked or not.
13 Verify the spelling for the label text alinged with the checkbox.
14 Verfy same label text is not repeated with the checkboxes.
15 Verify the order for the values or label text with the checkbox.
16 Vrify whether user selected checkbox values should save in the database by clicking on the submit button or not.
17 Verify checkbox can be uncheckable or not by clicking on the check box after selecting .
18 Verify validation is added fno checkbox is checked and click on the submit button and an alter or error message must appear.


  test case for url
 ..................................................

1. Verify by clicking in the input URL field that the user can access the field.
2. Verify user can type URL in the field.
3. Verify user can paste URL with the keyboard key URL in the field.
4. Check by the pasting the URL in the field with the help of mouse .
5. Paste URL and press enter key on the keyboard result generation process should be started.
6. Check by adding a valid URL with https://.
7. Check by adding a valid URL with http://.
8. Verify by adding all the extensions or TLD's. .in, .be, .xyz, site etc.
9 Check by adding spaces at the start of the URL.click on the button,spaces should not be considered.
10 Checking by adding only the domain name without http://.
11 Check by without entering the URL in the field and click on the button .A proper error message should be shown ,NoURL found.
12 Verify by adding an IP address of the website and click on the button.
12 Check by adding a valid URL without extension.
13 Check by adding only the name of the site without adding dot in the URL field.
14 Check by adding only the extension .https://www.com
15  Check by adding the URL of the maximumlength
16 Check by adding the URL of the minimumlength.
17 Verify the behaviour of the application entering an encode URL.
18 Verify a URL containing parameters.
19 Verify by adding and removing forwor slashes/.
20 Verify a URL CONTAINING ANY SPECIAL CHARACTERS
21 Verify an anchor text URL
22 Verify on click on the button an error messsge shown for blank inputbor not.
23 Verify on click on the butto ,an error message shown for adding spaces in the URL field or not.
 

  Test case for the mobile number field
........................................................

1. Verify that the mobile number field should display the accepted format of the mobile number as the placeholder text for user assistance.
2. Add a valid mobile number and verify the field should accept the correct mobile number.
3. Verify user can cipy and paste the mobile number in the field or not.
4. Verify mobile number field should accept only the numeric value by entering alphabets.
5. Verify mobile number field should accept only the numeric value by entering the special character.
6. Verify by entering the less number than the actul mobile number .
7. Verify the behaviour by adding more digits than the actul mobile number. 
8. verify field accepts the space between the mobile number or not according to the requirements.
9. Verify an error message shown for the blank input for the mobile number field.
10 Verify by adding only the spaces in the Mobile Number field.
11 Verify correct mobile number is saved in the database or not by click on the save or next button.
12 Verify mobile number is saved by pressing the enter button after adding the mobile number in the field.
13 Verify country flags are shown with mobile number field or not.
14 Verify with flags country code is shown or not with the mobile number field.



   Test cases for Captcha
  ......................................

1. Verify the time duration in which the captcha is loading on the webpage.
2. Test captcha should not be by passed by clicking on the captcha multiple time when the captcha time when the captcha is not loaded and 
   shown on the webpage during web page loading.
3. Check the time out for the captcha .The time in which the captcha become unchecked.
4. Test the captcha on slow internet .An invalid captcha error message should not be shown.
5. Verify the captcha and click on the submit button two times it should not display an invalid captcha error.
6. Verify every time a new captcha should be shown on page reload.
7. Verify user IP is blocked on attempting an invalid captcha after the defined number of attempts.
8. Verify captcha is placed on the required web page.
9. Verify captcha added is alinged or not.
10 Verify webpage accepts the valid captcha or not 
11 Verify that the user can request for new captcha without the page loading option is present or not.
12 Verify an audio option is added for the captcha or not as per requirements.
13 Verify new captcha is generated in case if the user adds the wrong captcha.
14 Verify an error message shown when page timeout for the captcha.
15 Verify an error message should be shown in case if the captcha is not filled by the user.
16 Vrify a proper error message is shown incase if the user not fills the captcha correctly.
17 verify an error message is shown in case if the captcha is partly filled by the user.
18 Verify image in the tile is shown on click on the checkbox or not.
19 Verify the images are the clearly visible to the user or not.
20 Verify tile images shown on captcha are clickable or not.
21 Verify that the captcha is loaded properly on the web page load

Test cases related to digit /Code captcah
.....................................................

1. Verify captcha code is clearly visible or not.
2. verify user can not copy and paste the captcha verification code from the image.
3. Verify code shown should be in image from or not.
4. Verify captcha should display code clearly between zero 0and O o,5 and S.
5. Verify captcha code should be case sensitive (Upper and Lower case).


Test case for GUI
..................................................

1. Verify that all the elements(checkbox,radio button,text field etc) on the webpage are aligned or not.
2. Make sure that icons on the webpage align with the web page.
3. Verify that placeholder text on the input field is present and visible or not.
4. Verify the layout the webpage on cross device testing.
5. Test responsivness for all the elements label text,field,checkboxes,or radio buttons on diffrent browsers while testing cross browser testing.
6. Verify whether the font size for the content on the webpage is readable or not.
7. Confirm the font colour for the content on the web page or not.
8. Verify the placement and position of the error message shown on the webpage according to design.
9. Verify the colour for the message,warnings and info messages.
10 Verify proper padding and spacing between diffrent elements on the web page (label text and checkbox,buttons devs etc.)
11 Verify image should not be blurred and visible on the webpage.
12 check banners or images should be shown and alinged on mobile devices.And should not be trimmed.
13 Verify the text on thr images should be readable.
14 Verify the spellings should be correct on the web page.
15 Verify the correct page should be open on click on the link.
16 Check the colours for the links added to the text.
17 Verify the headings on the content.
18 Verify whether the validation is on the fields or not.
19 A confirmation message is shown on the popup or alert in case of delete functionality on the web page or not.
20 Verify titels on all web pages.
21 verify there should not be any broken links present on the web page.
22 Make sure there should not be any broken images should not be shown on the webpage.
23 Verify the order of the values on the dropdown list should be sorted as required.
24 Verify 404 page is desinged or not. 